---
layout: post
permalink: blog/checkstyle_4_2_released
title: Checkstyle 4.2 released
category: Java
---
<p>
  It has taken about seven months to get the next release of <a href="http://checkstyle.sf.net">Checkstyle</a> out the door. This is
  quite a long time between releases. I put this down to:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>Checkstyle's maturity, there is not a lot of low hanging fruit</li>
  <li>The developers having family distractions, like new children</li>
</ul>

<p>
  Both good things. I got asked by Bill Venners for a quote for the
  latest release. It got posted <a href="http://www.artima.com/forums/flat.jsp?forum=276&amp;thread=168350">here</a>,
  but here is what I said:
</p>

<p>
<cite>
  Put simply, Checkstyle is a tool for enforcing coding standards. It
  has a modular design that allows specific checks to be configured,
  and Checkstyle is easily extended by writing custom checks. The
  architecture is geared towards performance, allowing for Checkstyle
  to run quickly and operates by analysing the source code. There is
  some overlap with tools like PMD and FindBugs, but these tools focus
  more on design bugs and run much slower. Personally I recommend
  running all three tools on any project.
</cite>
</p>

<p>
<cite>
  The 4.2 release contains a number of bug fixes and minor
  enhancements, the most significant being support for suppressing
  errors at a finer level than the check class name. To explain how
  this is useful, imagine you configure the GenericIllegalRegexp check
  twice, once to detect trailing white space (to reduce conflicts on
  code merges) and another to detect calls to "System.out". Previously
  it was not possible to just suppress the check to detect calls to
  "System.out".
</cite>
</p>