---
layout: post
permalink: blog/using_checkstyle_to_help_with
title: Using Checkstyle to help with branching
category: Java
---
<P>As one can expect, I have quite a bit of experience with using
Checkstyle. I have been using it on my current project since the
beginning, and as such have had the ability to impose a &ldquo;zero
tolerance&rdquo; policy on errors. After the usual initial mumblings,
it is now taken for granted. I guess you could say that we reached <A HREF="http://blog.audiumcorp.com/2006/05/a_truce_in_my_personal_war_wit.html">a
truce</A>.</P>
<P>To get to this state is pretty good considering that the project
has:</P>
<UL>
	<LI><P>About forty active developers.</P>
	<LI><P>Over 5,600 Java files and growing rapidly. This number
	excludes all test code (unit and integration tests).</P>
</UL>
<P>Given the size of the project, we make extensive use of Subversion
branching. To help reduce the number of potential conflicts, it is
necessary to minimise the number of changes due to personal style, or
the whim of the IDE. The following checks have been very helpful:</P>
<UL>
	<LI><P><A HREF="http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/config_misc.html#Indentation">Indentation</A>
	to ensure that code is consistently indented.</P>
	<LI><P><A HREF="http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/config_imports.html#ImportOrder">ImportOrder</A>
	to ensure the import order is fixed. You be amazed at what the IDE's
	do.</P>
	<LI><P><A HREF="http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/config_misc.html#GenericIllegalRegexp">GenericIllegalRegexp</A>
	to ensure no trailing white space characters. Not sure how much <A HREF="http://forums.topcoder.com/?module=Thread&amp;threadID=511488&amp;start=0&amp;mc=10#545928">this
	guy</A> would like it!</P>
</UL>