---
layout: post
permalink: blog/soa_i_smell_dollars_now
title: SOA - I smell dollars now
category: Java
---
<p>
  Way back in 1989 when I was at university I had the good luck of doing
  a course on operating systems taught by John Lions where we got to
  read the source code to Unix. John was <a
  href="http://www.mids.org/pay/mn/901/jl.html">largely responsible</a>
  for introducing UNIX to Australia. I remember to this day when he
  asked in a lecture on networking:
</p>

<blockquote>What does ISDN stand for?</blockquote>

<p>
  To which he followed up with:
</p>

<blockquote>I Smell Dollars Now.</blockquote>

<p>
  Showing my age here, but this was in reference to ISDN which was a
  comparatively new technology at the time. Telstra, then know as
  Telecom Australia, were over charging for the new technology.
</p>

<p>
  So what? Well when ever I hear about research buzzwords and
  technologies, I always end up saying to myself <i>&quot;I Smell
  Dollars Now&quot;</i>. Web Services and the follow up, Service
  Oriented Architectures are no different. I think the parallels between
  CORBA and Web Services are staggering.
</p>

<p>
  Armed with this information about my background, you would understand
  why I resonated with Rockford Lhotka's posting about <a href="http://www.lhotka.net/WeBlog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=05f88592-9ecb-4331-a86b-cfeebc411dfe">SOA,
  dollar signs and trust boundaries</a>. I am going through the issues
  on a project at the moment about how to apply Service Oriented
  Architecture principles. Rockford's discussion on trust boundaries is
  excellent.
</p>
