---
layout: post
permalink: blog/correction_eclipse_code_formatter_is
title: "Correction: Eclipse Code Formatter is <i>not</i> lame"
category: Java
---
<p>
  I recently <a
  href="/page/oburn/20041111#eclipse_code_formatter_is_lame">blogged</a>
  that the Code Formatter is lame. This got a few comments that I should
  be using the <a href="http://jalopy.sourceforge.net/">Jalopy</a>
  plug-in. I am not keen to go down this path as development on the open
  source project appears to <a
  href="http://www.triemax.com/products/">have stopped</a>.
</p>

<p>
  <a
  href="/comments/oburn/?anchor=eclipse_code_formatter_is_lame#comment5">Jonathan
  Aquino</a> questioned what version of Eclipse I was running as the
  formatter worked just fine for him. Since I am running <i>3.0.1</i>, I
  did not think this would be the problem. But it got me thinking, the
  code formatter setup I have was developed on an earlier version
  3<i>M</i> build. So I rebuilt the setup from scratch using the <i>Java
  Conventions</i> profile that is built-in. Well, I will be darned, it
  now works! I looked at the profile settings and cannot see any visible
  differences that would change the way the formatter works.
</p>


<p>
  So I guess the lessons learnt were:
</p>

<ul>

  <li>It pays to blog about your problem</li>

  <li>The Eclipse Code Formatter is <b>not</b> lame - if you properly
  configure it.</li>

  <li>Be wary about migrating profiles through upgrades to Eclipse
  (which is far enough).</li>

</ul>