---
layout: post
permalink: blog/continuous_integration_stack
title: Continuous integration stack
category: Java
---
<p class="first">A friend asked what my current <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_Integration">Continuous Integration</a> stack is, so I thought I would share with my every growing list of readers. So here goes, this is what I use at work:</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://subversion.tigris.org/">Subversion</a> for source control. On Windows <a href="http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/">TortoiseSVN</a> is a must!</li>
<li><a href="http://ant.apache.org/">Apache ANT</a> for build automation. I use <a href="http://ant-contrib.sourceforge.net/">Ant-Contrib Tasks</a> for doing <a href="http://ant-contrib.sourceforge.net/tasks/tasks/if.html">fiddly</a> <a href="http://ant-contrib.sourceforge.net/tasks/tasks/outofdate.html">stuff</a>. More recently I now use of the <a href="http://groovy.codehaus.org/The+groovy+Ant+Task">Groovy Ant Task</a> which makes life a lot easier.</li>

<li><a href="http://ant.apache.org/ivy/">Apache Ivy</a> for dependency management. We run an internal repository, so not dependant on the Internet.</li>
<li>Testing frameworks include <a href="http://www.junit.org/">JUnit</a>, <a href="http://dbunit.sourceforge.net/">DbUnit</a>, <a href="http://strutstestcase.sourceforge.net/">StrutsTestCase</a> and <a href="http://www.easymock.org/">EasyMock</a>.</li>
<li>Code coverage is measured using <a href="http://emma.sourceforge.net/">EMMA</a>.</li>

<li>Static analysis is done using:

<ul>
<li><a href="http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/">Checkstyle</a> for coding standards - have zero tolerance for errors.</li>
<li><a href="http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/">FindBugs</a> for catching bugs - have a policy not allowing any more errors to be introduced and actively trying to reduce to zero.</li>
<li><a href="http://pmd.sourceforge.net/">PMD</a> in a sweeper role - report generated largely as an FYI.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><a href="https://hudson.dev.java.net/">Hudson</a> is the CI server used to automate the process. It is setup with a master and two slave machines. It works a treat!</li>

</ul>

<p>Some of you may be asking why ANT instead of <a href="http://maven.apache.org/">Maven</a>? I use Maven for my personal projects, but am not willing to roll it on a large project. Love it or hate it, the fact is that ANT works everywhere and
is supported by everything. I also find on larger projects that you often need to deal with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corner_case">corner cases</a>, and this is not (that) easy in Maven.</p>

<p>More recently I have switched to use <a href="http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/wiki/">Mercurial</a> for personal projects, and love it! <a href="http://tortoisehg.sourceforge.net/">TortoiseHg</a> on Windows is nice. Next time I have the choice to select a source control system at work, this will be a serious contender with Subversion.</p>
